Earlier, we found the notions that certain traits of the enriched code (the code
comments, our literate programming comments are the main real-estate here) that
factors in education, previous experience, even cultural differences. Tailor
made educational services are costful and impractical. Luckily internet has
improved some circumstances but digital learning will probably not work for
everyone, just as much as not just anyone can easily become a programmer.

Although I believe anything to be possible, it's safe to assume that atleast
some people are more likely to follow down a certain path of personal growth and
development, learning and education then others. Social background, atleast
since long, has been a very important factor but we see this taken away by low
prices of computers, information on the internet and other developments.

"insert image of group of indians on corner of street shop together hacking"
Empowerment and sharing of resources, learning together.

![Students and staff gathered around one of the few working computers to upload field internship reports at L’Ecole d’Infirmiers de Gao.](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-f67t_oviEe4/UPpOe74XdsI/AAAAAAAADtc/OO2AthMXOoM/s1600/Ethiopia.jpg)

But things progress as well... on the embedded plane.


![Etheopian children who were never instructed computer use before](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-f67t_oviEe4/UPpOe74XdsI/AAAAAAAADtc/OO2AthMXOoM/s1600/Ethiopia.jpg)

Zo werd er een experiment in Ethiopië gehouden met een aantal laptops. Een groep
van 50 jonge kinderen kreeg de beschikking over een aantal Engelstalig
geïnstalleerde apparaten. Geen van de kinderen was de Engelse taal machtig. Na
een aantal weken waren er verbluffende resultaten bereikt. Nadat ze hadden
ontdekt hoe ze het apparaat konden opladen en opstarten, wisten ze het internet
te vinden. Kinderen werden niet geïnstrueerd, slechts geobserveerd. Na een
aantal dagen trof men de kinderen aan, al meezingend met alfabet-liedjes op
youtube en speelden ze educatieve woordspelletjes. Een jongetje opende een
tekenprogramma (paint) en schreef het woord "Lion". Daar bleef het niet bij.
Uiteindelijk paste elk kind zijn eigen bureaublad naar wensen aan. Andere kleur,
leuke plaatjes, diverse programma's naar interesse enzovoorts. Lees hier het
originele (Engelstalige) artikel van het project "One laptop per child".

![Every child a computer-like projects](http://www.sg.hu/kep/2007_10/1025ol1.jpg)
