Coffeebook
==========

Conceptual Static Site, hosted using the great GitHub Pages.

*Coffeebook, the entire story from beginning to end.*

A Literate CoffeeScript (LCS) & GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM) enabled,
collaborative code writing and library documentation project. A radical shift
from mainstream development and architecture while encorporating the most
creative, powerful ideas and bundling of strengths by leveraging the best
available practices, workflows and diversify.

Coffeebook is more a smart 'content enrichment' or decorator suite of tools,
that allow for the maximum (slightly opinionated) effeciency, simplicity,
elegance and maintainability.

Ideally, this project should also be in the same style: self-documented and
self-inspired and providing in the initial actual content.

Due to time-constraints and coding effectiveness, I will not be able to properly
write-out any and all 'view points' and 'difficulty levels' due to time, lack of
knowledge of sub-fields or other disciplines (mathematical explaination or
logical? focus on semantics or style?). It is because of this friction between
available space (on screen), readability (and sanity) on one side, and near
limitless words to spend on a single line of code (extreme case I know). But
hey, Dr. Knuth's famous and often referenced quote on literate programming, in a
equally named book, appeared on page 99 of that book so hey, you can talk much
about code - just ask him!

So what I do from now, is to partially further explore the components
(libraries) that I want to use for the site and hack what I need tweaked.
Already I made great progress in mashing up several seperate of the libraries
and modern techniques, so I'll also spend a great deal in working out a
'system', exploring some of the problems we need to solve and decisions that
need to be taken.

Also, we are a top net coffee-consuming country per head of capita. So we know
and love our coffee about as much as the British love tea and cricket (you
thought I was going to say biscuit, didn't you?).

So think GitHub. Paid services with very little advertisement once it grows (has
grown), discrete and elegant/simple of design. Also, I like to give something
back to the community so free, open-source and instead of making a living on the
platform, it's 'as a service' but instead of focussed around code (machine-
centric) we focus on the human. I have drawn great inspiration and grew much
love for "The Arch Way" and feel like "we can do better" much along the lines of
how LightTable got inspired, I got inspired by literature of heavy scientific
subjects (quantum mechanics and string theory, cosmology) made accessibly by
writers of popular science such as Michu Kaku and Brian Greene.




<small>
These are GitHub hosted static HTML pages in preperation of Coffeebook.io

It allows to further work on these ideas, and present them to other people,
while not utilizing any other infrastructure in this conceptual phase. Chances
are this may/will move to a PaaS or dedicated infrastructure.
</small>

