

There are a few subjects which we need to decide upon, before we continue, that
are not a matter of technology so much as they are more from a educational 'best
practice' perspective.

To stress-out once more here: we trade in textual content enrichement. In
programming, adding meta-data to elements (like classes) is often called
'decorating' which suits nicely, also in our context.

Say we have a single line of code, in CoffeeScript obviously, although there is
no reason to assume other LP enabled languages would be excluded from future
participation in this idea.

Or even take **any** researchable and teachable subject for that matter, and
often you'll find there are different angles of approach to the subject. Often
in science, different disciplines of scientific fields are coorporating on a
given research subject. Sometimes more than others, and for a great deal it
depends on the value to society (there might be constraints due to fear and/or
hi-risk of infringement on original work etc.) and certainly, some subjects tend
to lend themselves better than others for so-called 'peer review', even within
their own field. The scientific term for cross science peer review would be
[interdisciplinarity][wpi].

All we need to get from this, and that is key here, the notion that there can be
very different, equally 'valid' ways to approach any given problem, statement or
subject and all should be valued in their own regards.

Let us call these 'view points' for simplicity now and recognize them as the
first quantifiable variable we have here so far.

The second notion, as any educator or even a 4-year old can tell you, there are
differences in the 'level' of understanding someone has of a concept, and this
is directly (or should be) related to the education some receives. Things in the
real world however, do not work in such a manner. To begin with, there are many
costs this approach would bring on a large scale: tailor-made, customized
education for an individual would usually equal a 1:1 relation of tutor and
student since not every one student is really the same.

But what if we take two students, who both had the same education? Approaches
might still be very different due to their cultural background, IQ or EQ, life
experiences and degree to which was learned from those. Or simply 'just someone
better with their hands' and others with their 'brain', so more with their
'heart' and others in 'spirit'.

Explaining computers to a child is different from explaining it to a seasoned
programmer. Teaching language to someone who speaks 5 or more fluently,
differences from someone who barely manages 2.

And then there is the, somewhat debatable notion, that flies in programmer
circles which devides people in 3 groups: goat, sheep and alphas. The sheep are
people who program, the alphas are code-cutter wizzkids or 'hacker by nature'
but the goats, they will never 'get' programming.

I find this idea to be questionable at the least, and offensive to the most,
because it does not consider for any other factors such as 'persistence' or
'willpower' to be included, nor does it explain why people who do program also
can quit and never do it again. I guess a religious believer in that notion
might claim it as an act of God tho. The goat was never a goat because he/she
became a sheep. I don't know. It's the same kind of questions along the line of
'grass being green when it's dark': funny to ponder but pointless in the end.

There are some initiatives though, that try to provide a better 1:1 service to
students, that (should theoretically atleast) improves the 'match' with any
previously gained knowledge or experience. Distance learning (e-learning) are
manifestations of this desire.

Other educators, parents or students might be more conservative in this respect
and partially at least, I can't blame them. Far going liberalisation of things,
such as working from home not the office, has also shown us to have negative
side-effects and not being for just 'anyone'. Some people work better alone,
others together (myself included but I can learn on my own decently enough I
feel). Some people need more supervision, others appreciate the verbal
explanation, even more are aided by the non-verbal communication or body-
language, that does with any person including a teacher. Why is this last thing
important? Exactly, you wouldn't be able to tell what is important from a
message, without the other sensors we humans use. Tone, pace, movement of hands:
all can be signals that what is being communicated is important (or atleast to
the sender), relevant or perhaps a long past station. A teacher on the other
hand, can't do well without feedback from students. These are all important
notions we shouldn't forget when figuring out Coffeebook.

Now keep in mind that any qualifications we try to make are in essence,
subjective of nature. Wether or not someone is an 'expert' depends on the
reviewing parties own expertise on the subject. To my collegues long time I've
been a wizzkid but nothing I did was really (really!) special.

But, thankfully, we do not have such a large base of subjects that one needs to
be expert at, in order to work with it. So while this project, in essence, is my
Coffeebook for now, I can take up any of these subjects to explore further. It
is true though, as long as I would be the driving force and content contributer
behind it, would very much reflect (and be capped by) what *I* know at that time
and found interesting to explore further.










[wpi]: <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interdisciplinarity>
